I used the default project (with the example project requirements). I discussed using the default project 

with Quinn and asked about it in my lab course. When making my GUI, I made the initial function and 

declared the global variable. The function should have a blank plot at the beginning, so I made a figure 

and plotted (0,0) to make a blank plot. Then I made all of the initial button information, which included 

the text and data for the title, x label, y label, x limit, y limit, x data, y, data, and the type and color’s 

menu and text. At the end, I made the plot button and connected it to its own callback and then ended 

that initial function.



The plot callback starts with an initial declaration of the global variable. Then, all of the buttons and text 

in the initial function have their visibility switched off so the view of the plot is clear. Then a reset button 

connected to its own callback is made. For the type and color’s menus, I preset an initial value (circles 

and red) and then made a switch statement for each (so they can be selected by the user). I then moved 

on to actually making the plotting function itself, which I broke up into different parts. Since I could not 

easily make it all one function (the titles, limits, color, type, etc.), I made multiple parts (the data: x and y 

values and the color and type, titles and labels all separately, and the x and y limits). For the data, I 

made variables t and s to represent the x and y values and made them equal to the numbers from their 

respective data strings. For the type and color, I had to combine those strings. I did that by making type 

equal one string, color being another, and then combining them (comb) before using them in the plot 

function (plot(t,s,comb)). For the title, I used title(‘%d\n’,char(gui.titleEdit.String)), which could have 

been shortened. For the x label I used xlabel([char(gui.xLabelEdit.String)]) and the same format for the y 

label so they would use a character string. For the x and y limits I was able to use the format 

xlim(str2num(gui.xLimEdit.String)). At that point the plot function was done.



To finish off the code, I made the reset callback function. I started it with the close all line (to close the 

active plot) and then ended it with the initial function (finalProjectGUI()).



I found that the conceptualization of the project overall was not too difficult. I was mainly having issues 

with the technical parts (like setting up the part that actually plots the data and the combined character 

string for the type and color) of the final project.



I may use GUIs in the future as a calculating function (like a normal MATLAB function without the 

requirement of being called with the data) similar to the code I made. I would also likely be able to use 

them as a base for a physical input or output device (like a musical instrument or part of a physical 

mechanism).